Let's make like Steve Harvey
and get into the news.
I, uh...
I actually feel bad
for Steve Harvey, you know?
These days, whenever you see
his name in the headlines,
it's because
something went wrong.
Two years ago
he accidentally crowned
the wrong Miss Universe
on live TV.
He's constantly
calling families to feud.
And last week
was a double whammy.
Harvey's week off, uh,
started... or, his week, rather,
started off with him
being slammed
for making jokes about
Asian guys being unattractive
in a segment
on his daytime talk show.
And, uh, that wasn't even
Steve Harvey's whole week.
Because after pissing off,
uh, a whole ethnic group,
where does one go
to find a sympathetic ear?
REPORTER: We are just getting
some live pictures in
right now.
The president-elect making
an unannounced appearance
at Trump Tower,
where he is standing
with Steve Harvey.
REPORTER 2: Comedian Steve
Harvey revealed he'll work
with Donald Trump
to improve inner cities.
And you thought Donald Trump
wasn't gonna do anything
for black people. Huh? Huh?
You know what's funny
is every single
black person
who meets with Trump
has that same
"What the (bleep) just happened"
expression on their face.
Like...
As soon as... as soon as
the cameras come out,
they all look like
they've busted
on an episode of Cheaters.
That's what it looks like.
No, it's not what it looks like,
it's not what it looks like.
Now, as you can imagine,
any black person...
any black person seen to be
rolling with Trump
knows they will be subject to
the full fury of Black Twitter,
uh, which is why Steve
was not ashamed
to justify his visit
and, uh, drop names.
I was, uh, in-invited here
by the...
both transition teams--
Obama's transition team
and Trump's.
President Obama says
you got to sit down and talk.
It's just me following, uh,
orders from my friend,
uh, President Obama,
who said, "Steve, you got to..."
as he told everybody,
"get out from behind
your computer,
"stop tweeting and texting
and get out there
and sit down and talk."
A-and O... and Obama told me
to call that woman, honey.
Uh, Obama said I should...
I should talk to her
in the club.
And Obama's why I drove
that fast, officer.
He said... he said,
"Don't let anything
stop you, keep going."
And-and... and Obama i-is...
is just, like...
I like how Obama's become, like,
the "traffic excuse"
of politics.
"Why are you doing..." Well, the
Obama was so crazy yesterday,
I just had to... I had to do it.
Uh, so it was a really
rough week for Steve Harvey.
I-I feel bad for him.
He's a good guy.
But how you can defend yourself
about this? How...
Uh-uh, uh-uh, I can
defend myself, Trev.
-(cheering, applause)
-Oh!
I can defend myself, boy.
It's Steve Harvey, everybody,
it's Steve Harvey!
-Yeah.
-It's Steve Harvey!
Mm-hmm.
What?
Now, you over here telling
your little jokes about me,
but see, Trevor, you don't even
understand how it went down.
Let me tell you
how it went down.
You got to explain
to these Africans real slow
how it go down.
I was minding my business
at the dry cleaners,
'cause I dropped off my mustache
to get cleaned up.
My phone rang,
and it was-it was...
and I knew it was
an important call,
'cause it was
the Downton Abbey ring tone.
-(sings Downton Abbey theme)
-Uh...
Yeah. That's what I use
on my phone. It was Obama.
I-I answered the phone...
and Obama said,
"Steve, I need you
to go talk to Trump."
Mr. Harvey, I-I hate
to call you out,
but it sounds like you're trying
to blame Obama for this.
Well, white folks blamed
Obama for eight years.
I can't do it once?
So, wait, so, wait-- if Obama
said jump off a building,
would you do it?
If it helped black people, yeah.
Still, hey, Trump...
It-it hurts me that black people
think I don't care about 'em.
Every year I honor
the best in black business.
I have a program
that mentors children.
My mustache
won three NAACP awards.
You see, this is...
this is all it comes down to:
black people... black people,
we-we got two choices,
black people, look:
either we meet this man
and try to get something done
or we take four years
off politics.
And I don't know about y'all,
but Steve Harvey
don't take a day off.
You better check your TV Guide,
I'm on four channels right now.
(laughs)
Yeah.
-Ste-Steve, take-take a seat.
-I'm on QVC,
I'm on damn ESPN Deportes.
Steve, Steve, I understand,
-I'm on all them channels.
-I understand what you were
trying to do, but-but what do
you say to the people
who are mad at you?
The hell you mad for?
I stood next to a man
while he said dumb things.
My whole job
is to stand next to people
while they say dumb things.
Name me something that
has an eye but can't see.
-Tiger.
-(applause)
Tell me a part of the body
that begins with the letter T.
-Titties.
-(bell dings)
Good sucker?
(chuckles)
-Asparagus.
-(applause)
-Seagull.
-Good answer!
I could have said, "Do this,
say that." I don't want that.
(bell dings)
Roy Wood Jr., everybody.
-Give it up for Roy Wood Jr.
-(cheering, applause)
And by the way, by the way,
Roy, by the way,
I can't front, man--
that's a pretty good
Steve Harvey impression, man.
-The mustache does half the
work. -Yeah.
Now, if Steve Harvey's
way of dealing with Trump
isn't your flavor,
we got the exact opposite way
of dealing with Trump this
weekend from Georgia congressman
and civil rights leader
John Lewis.
Do you plan on trying
to forge a relationship
with Donald Trump?
It's gonna be very difficult.
Uh, I don't see this
president-elect
as a legitimate president.
You do not consider him
a legitimate president.
Why is that?
I-I think the Russians
participated
in helping this man get elected.
And... and they helped
destroy the candidacy
of Hillary Clinton.
Uh, I don't plan
to attend the inauguration.
Damn, John Lewis
does not mess around.
I mean, I've heard of people
turning down party invites,
but giving your reason
as illegitimate--
that's gonna change Evites
forever, people.
So... John Lewis
called Trump
an illegitimate president.
And you know Trump--
I mean, he just
lets that (bleep) slide.
Straight onto his keyboard.
MAN: Trump lashing out at the
Georgia congressman on Twitter,
saying "Lewis should spend
more time on fixing
"and helping his district,
which is in horrible shape
and crime infested."
MAN 2:
"All talk, talk, talk.
No action or results. Sad!"
-(laughter)
-I'm sorry. What?
All talk, no action?
You're calling
a civil rights hero
who marched in Selma
with Martin Luther King Jr.
all talk, no action?
Saying John Lewis isn't a man
of action is like me saying
Donald Trump is all tax returns,
no tweets.
(laughter)
(applause and cheering)
This man... this man
got his head beaten in
on multiple occasions
by racist policemen
who were trying to silence him
in what he was doing.
That is action.
I'm not gonna front.
If you smashed me over the head,
I would seriously reconsider
-whatever issue
I was fighting for. -(laughter)
I'd be like,
"I'm sitting in the front." Bap.
"You know what?
The back's cooler anyway.
"It's where
all the cool kids are.
"Rosa, you do you.
"I've got
a one head-beating policy.
I'm out. I'm out."
A part of me thinks Trump didn't
even know who John Lewis was.
I mean, this seems like it's
just Trump's generic response
to any black criticism.
Any time black people
criticize him, he's just like,
"Go back
to your burning inner city."
You know, like,
if Trump met a black astronaut,
I bet he'd be like,
"Thank you for fighting crime
-in the burning inner cities
of space." -(laughter)
"Space crime is a huge problem.
-Sad."
-(laughter)
-But...
-(applause and cheering)
But here's the thing.
Here's the thing.
What Steve Harvey
and John Lewis did this weekend
perfectly captures the debate
about how to respond
to the Trump presidency.
Do you resist him,
or do you work with him?
And this weekend,
we saw examples of both.
And it's appropriate
that we're talking about this
on Martin Luther King Day
because Dr. King also stood
for both approaches.
Dr. King was out on the streets
marching and boycotting,
but he also sat down to
negotiate with those in power.
Yeah. And that's exactly
what I was trying to do.
-(laughter) -That's what Obama
told me to do.
What you just said--
that's what Obama...
CHIENG:
Steve Harvey!
Oh, (bleep), It's Ronny Chieng,
everybody. Ronny Chieng!
-(applause and cheering)
-Wow. Ronny Chieng.
What's up?
Wow. What-what are you...?
What are you doing here, and why
do you have a baseball bat?
You think it's funny
to perpetuate stereotypes
about Asian men?
I will teach you
about racial discrimination.
Now, which one of you
is Steve Harvey?